>>LILOU: Hello, my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here.
Today I'm in Boulder, Colorado.
A little bit different
because I'm in a studio.
But I'm still on the
road, traveling like crazy
because I love
interviewing people.
I've got this passion
for discovering
what it takes to
transform our lives.
And today, I have a
very special teacher.
One that I met many years
ago, actually, through email.
And we connected, but it was not
the time to do this interview.
Today I know we are ready.
We are ready for
big transformation.
And we're ready to
really-- and maybe I
shouldn't use the
word crap, but it
is time to really shake
things up and see the truth,
and see what really
spirituality means, what
awakening means,
what mysticism is.
I think all of that needs
to be redefined right now.
And this interview is part
of this paradigm shift.
And I want you to feel
what it feels like.
I want to feel it, you
to feel it in your heart,
in your body, what is
this new teaching about.
Because this is a new
era we're in right now,
and it requires new
type of teachers.
I'm in love, of course, with
so many teachings out there.
But I think tonight
my guest, that
is the author of "Transforming
Fate Into Destiny," Robert
Ohotto-- the hotto, hotso.
My god, I'm so excited
to interview him.
Not only you're so cute,
but he has some very amazing
information.
You're an intuitive
life strategist.
And you're an author
and you're a radio host.
And you're just this hot
thing out there bringing
some information that is truly
potent, that is important.
I know you were trained
by Caroline Myss,
so you went through a
tough training, didn't you?
>>ROBERT OHOTTO: I did, yes.
I come from the school
of Caroline Myss.
Taught with her for many
years at her institute, CMED.
And then got my own book,
and have my own radio show
and platform, and
just been kicking it.
>>LILOU: So let's
start it right in there
in this topic of
redefining right now.
How do you see spirituality,
mysticism, empowerment?
Why is it so important
to redefine this now?
>>OHOTTO: Well, I
think the best way
to describe this is by
telling folks what I actually
do as an intuitive.
I'm constantly tracking
the psyche of people.
So I'm going into the
psyche, but also referencing
the blueprint of
their life purpose.
I call it their soul contract.
And the gift of
all of that for me
is like being a reporter in
the field of consciousness.
I'm always witnessing
the movement of people,
witnessing the
movement of this field,
movement of culture.
And we are mandalas of energy.
So we have all these
different sources
of energy informing our
self-concept, our esteem,
our perspectives,
how we make choices.
And the fascinating thing
about this to me is,
and that I've
learned, when I think
is why we do need
to take a pause
and kind of do an inventory
even of our own field
is that there's something
in our culture called shame.
And it's something that's
been running around.
And it's a shame-based culture.
That's just the nature of how
our cultural psychic fabric is.
And when I read people,
I'm always tracking.
I say all the time I become
like a shame tracker.
I start to see where's
shame in someone's system.
Where is it affecting
perception and choice,
self-concept, esteem.
>>LILOU: So shame
of being ourselves?
>>OHOTTO: Shame of
just, yeah, being alive,
being a human being.
We kind of come from this
more religious orientation
that we're here because
we have original sin
or it's a place of banishment.
And then we translate that into
an Eastern shame-based idea
of karma, where
we've got lifetimes
that we've got to
work off all this sin.
And I've really become
very aware and cognizant
of how that affects people in
their journey in this life.
And I think there's a new
era emerging right now
in consciousness in this
field, where we have to have,
actually, a conversation about
the shame of our own field
and the unconscious level
of it and how, you know--
There's many well-intentioned
teachers out there.
But what I can see and
track in people as clients,
and also just watching
other teachers,
sometimes they teach from shame.
And they don't even realize
that's what they're doing.
>>LILOU: So it's like
spirituality is used,
but the same old
thing is behind it.
>>OHOTTO: It's like
the shame of, let's
say, a lot of
religious traditions
got transplanted
into metaphysical,
law of attraction philosophical,
neo-Buddhist language.
Yeah, absolutely.
>>LILOU: So I know you go in
a lot into the shadow work,
and we're going to
definitely speak
of that-- the shadow work, the
soul esteem, our Buddha nature,
talking of destiny, and what
is faith versus destiny.
And really, what
does it take to be
this free, awesome,
creative, loving human being.
So how do you see it?
What is for you spirituality?
I mean, what is awakening?
What is this now?
How do you define it?
>>OHOTTO: My definition
for spirituality
actually came to me from a
Native American philosophy
course I took in college.
Our professor was
an actual native.
And he brought in an
elder from his tribe.
And this elder was
telling us this story
about how he'd been beaten
by nuns and priests,
and forced to assimilate into
more of a Christian orientation
to spirituality, religion.
And he looked us
all in the eye--
and it just went right through
me, growing up Catholic.
It just shook me out.
And he said, you
know, religion is
for people who are afraid
they're going to go to hell.
And spirituality is for people
who have already been there.
And that just went right through
me because he'd lived it.
You could see it in his
presence and in his energy.
And he had this power about
him and this kind of luminosity
about him.
And that changed my
perspective forever
about how I saw spirituality,
how I've approach spirituality.
But spirituality to me
is about cultivating
things we've probably heard
a lot of-- loving kindness.
And most importantly, presence.
I think that's the most powerful
gift we can give each other.
It's the most powerful
way we can be in the world
and connect.
If you're not here, I
can't connect with you.
If you're somewhere else,
I can't connect with you.
And it's not about perfection.
It's about showing
up with all of what--
I call it your flawsomeness.
It's like flaw plus awesome.
But that's what we.
We're flawesome.
We have all these
things that are never
going to probably be fixed.
But that's OK.
And the more that
we create okayness,
I think, the more
that we can actually
unfold into a
conscious spirituality.
Because spirituality
is everything.
Everything.
All is one, all is of
God, all is the divine.
But I think the
difference is what's
in a conscious way of
being awakened in it.
And that to me is
a spiritual path,
if you're actively
conscious and working it.
But everyone's on
a spiritual path.
You know, and I kind of
look at it this way--
>>LILOU: Whether
you know it or not?
>>OHOTTO: Yeah,
because we're all God.
So if that's true, then
everything is spiritual.
There's a difference between
how awake you are in it.
And that's where I think we
look at the difference also
between purpose and destiny.
Because everyone's living
purpose all the time.
Purpose is life.
But destiny's a conscious
engagement with purpose.
>>LILOU: I think we have this
fluffy idea of spirituality
and love, when it's really
powerful and really requires,
as you say, presence.
>>OHOTTO: And
presence meaning you
are in your body, in the
moment, on the planet.
And this is where I think we
have to redefine mysticism.
I think the old
idea of mysticism
was about transcendence of life
or getting out of karmic debt
so you don't have
to reincarnate.
And I've always joked
that I think by the time
to get to the point where
you can't wait to get back
to Earth school, that's
probably when you
don't have to come here anymore.
Because this is God.
This idea that somehow this
isn't a real universe--
it's real.
The Buddhist idea of illusion is
that this just isn't permanent.
There's no permanence here,
but it is still just as real.
And Joseph Campbell
was known for saying
if you don't find eternity here,
you're not finding it anywhere.
Because this is it.
This is the moment.
This is the moment of awakening.
>>LILOU: So this whole
idea of paradise and hell
is basically an illusion
that we're trapped into
or we can be trapped into.
>>OHOTTO: It's a
mental polarity.
And this is where I think
in our spiritual traditions
and the teachers
before me, there's
a lot of focus on the mind.
We're kind of neurotic
because we say-- in Buddhism,
there's this idea that
you're not your thoughts.
They're just clouds
passing through the sky.
Then you turn to the
next metaphysical book
and it's you are what you
think, you are what you think.
So change your thoughts.
Change your life.
Where do you go?
I mean, it's like
there's this neurosis,
this pole between these ideas.
And somewhere in the middle
I think is the truth.
And the truth is
something that is
processed in this part of you.
It's in your heart, and
it's in the compassion,
and the unconditional
capacity to be
present to your life and
the moment as it arrives.
>>LILOU: It's a major shift
because to trust ourselves
and to follow that truth inside
is not how we've been raised,
right?
We've been waiting for
signs outside of us,
whereas the shift is
really here, isn't it?
>>OHOTTO: Yeah.
>>LILOU: It's like
I am this barometer.
>>OHOTTO: Yeah.
And what I've seen
intuitively in people
is there's a way
you can actually
pray that pulls you from your
power and out of the moment.
People pray for their
soulmates, right?
Of course, as an
intuitive, people
come to me for the usual
suspects-- career guidance,
love guidance, life purpose
guidance, spiritual guidance,
healing, understanding why
they keep self-sabotaging.
And it's such a rich and I
think sacred place for me
to hold to be in that space.
But what I've seen is
people come up here
and try to do the work.
But this is actually not
where the shift will happen.
What happens up here-- by the
time your mind is ruminating,
and polarized, and thinking
in terms of either/or,
should or shouldn't,
you've left here.
You've shut your heart down.
And to sink back here is where
your shift will happen here.
I'm sure everybody can relate
to relationships you finally
had to let go of.
And you came to that
knowing about it.
You ruminate up here,
and go back and forth.
And I got to get out
of this relationship.
Should I leave?
Shouldn't it?
What if?
And then you finally come
to that surrender point,
but that's here, where
there's just a knowing.
And once you leave knowing
and you go into either/or,
you've left your intuition.
You're out of intuition.
Intuition is a knowing and
a discernment of knowing.
So it's interesting when people
think of the concept of choice.
I would say there's not
right or wrong choices.
There's only the
choice that's true.
And that's something
that can be and needs
to be organic and in the moment.
Not a formulaic concept
of what's right or wrong
or what should I choose.
Your guidance system
intuitively knows.
It references what I call your
soul contract, that blueprint,
and says, OK, this is
where I must turn left,
this is where I must turn right.
There's no either or.
There's just turn left.
Because this is the
next way that I need go.
And It doesn't opt you out
of pain, suffering, loss,
challenge.
We are all are
going to experience
that as human beings.
So turning left, personal
guidance, and intuition,
a lot of people think
well, that's supposed
to be path that I
don't suffer on.
No, that's the path
sometimes that you
suffer more because it
summons the soul in some way.
>>LILOU: We're definitely going
to get in the practical aspect
because this is super
important to really descend
or at least to start
incarnating that
and to put that in practice.
One little last thing regarding
these old paradigm teachers.
What are some of the
things to watch for?
Just before we go into the
intuition, and the soul work,
and the shadow work.
I would like to just
discuss so that we
know what are some
of the little things
to watch for that
is a sign that it's
old paradigm versus something
that is really going to nurture
our soul, that is going
to help us to thrive.
>>OHOTTO: First, I
want to just define
old paradigm as something
that says you're not OK.
Somehow, some way, insidiously,
unconsciously perhaps,
but says there's
something wrong with you
that needs fixed before you're
good enough, before you're
OK enough, for
destiny to happen.
That's actually all an illusion.
And it's a
shame-driven illusion.
So when you step out of that,
the new paradigm is hey,
I'm already OK.
So if that's true, how
do I reveal my beauty?
And I think that as a
teacher, it's about me saying,
you know what?
I don't have the key to fix you.
I have the key to reveal you
because you're already enough.
So come over here.
Come to these teachings.
So first thing,
teachings that are
about the revelation
of the innate
okayness that's already
there, the innate worth that's
already there.
Teachings that say do
this, do that formula.
Shame the ego,
that's very popular.
Let's shame the ego,
the ego's wrong.
It's bad.
We got to get rid of it.
I can tell you as a
technician of the psyche
that the ego's not
going anywhere.
It's a necessary
part of how we're
meant to engage and
create in the world.
I'm Robert Ohotto.
You're Lilou Mace.
And that is necessary.
If you get rid of all of that,
then we're just floating around
and there's not a lot to do.
So the soul contract
is, in fact,
to be in some container of
identity while you're here.
The challenge is not
making it the center
of your consciousness as
if it's the only thing that
runs the reality.
It's not.
But if you find teachings
that are shaming the ego,
telling you need to
get rid of something,
that's shame talking.
And so what's interesting when
we talk about mysticism is
that mysticism is really, the
way I see it, we incarnate.
We come through these--
Earth is a matrix of energy.
It's a living energy
pattern, the school here.
And there are cycles of time.
There's archetypal
energies that we fuse into,
per our soul
contract, to be here.
So I was born in Colorado.
I'm an American.
I am white.
I am 6 foot 1.
I come from an alcoholic
and abusive home.
These are all coordinates
of my journey.
So that is something my soul
chose as a journey of purpose.
But when I leave, do
those things come with me?
Not necessarily.
But it must serve
some trajectory
of what I'm here to do.
>>LILOU: So it's agreed.
>>OHOTTO: This is fate.
This is your fate.
This is the contract
you make with fate.
Destiny becomes--
it's like getting
dealt a certain hand of cards.
What are you going
to do with that hand?
How are you going
to reference this--
not the shame-ridden,
crazy mind-- but this
on how to make the next
step, the next move?
And it's not perfect.
It's practice, because I
certainly don't got it down.
But what I've seen
people, when it
comes to your original
question about the teachings
and what to look
out for, you want
to be very aware of anything
that's making your wrong
or telling you to
get rid of stuff
or that you need to be fixed.
>>LILOU: When you
feel bad, basically.
You need to feel good.
>>OHOTTO: I've seen
the shaming of the ego,
and I've seen also the
shaming of the soul.
There's literature out
there that tells you
your soul's messed up and that's
why you keep reincarnating.
>>LILOU: Yeah,
what's up with that?
>>OHOTTO: I mean, if we
can't go to the soul,
where are we going?
Where do you go if the soul
itself is already messed up?
You know what I mean?
>>LILOU: Yeah.
>>OHOTTO: If it's
like the soul is here
to burn off lifetimes of--
and the fascinating thing is
mysticism, though,
is you journey
toward this essence of self.
We're celestial beings.
On, if you will, the other
side, there isn't shame.
That is an earth condition,
that is an earth pattern
that we do fuse with
when we're here.
And the thing that I've seen
people do with spirituality
is they work on themselves.
They wake up.
And then people, the
seekers that watch shows
like this, of which
I'm also one of them.
And I've taken this journey with
shame and journey of everything
that we're talking about
just like everybody else,
even though I have a unique--
>>LILOU: We're all
in this together.
>>OHOTTO: Amen.
Amen, sister.
>>LILOU: I'm clear
about that one.
And it's never ending, right?
>>OHOTTO: Yeah.
It's not.
But that's where
okayness is important.
And the mystical
journey for me is about
beginning to
understand and let go
of the illusory layer of shame.
That's the final frontier to
me in this field, is shame.
And the shame filter that's
used to even perceive
the teachings in this field,
and teach from in this field,
is very pervasive.
So that's one thing that
I've become a very good,
a very active activist about,
because I grew up the kid that
was bullied on the
playground and made fun of.
And growing up gay
was also a big part
of my own journey of
understanding shame and all
these different pieces.
I mean, I was born
out of the womb
and partnered up
with shame right away
in a shame-based culture.
So this is something I'm
very, very familiar with
and I'm very sensitive to.
And when I see
that going around,
I feel like I have
to say something.
But my own awakening
with it took some time
in terms of spirituality
and self-help, too.
There's books that
I could pull off
the shelf that I read in 1999
and I'm like, man, in 1999,
this was the bomb.
I loved this book.
This rocked my world.
Now I read it and I
can see deep passages
of shame-based thinking,
of shame-based ideas
of the soul and the ego.
>>LILOU: When this soul contract
happens on this other plane,
you kind of agree with some
different souls, right?
Then the role each other we're
going to play so that, what?
I mean, what's the goal
of this little meeting?
To then, down on the earth--
What's the ultimate goal, then,
of living, of being here, of
being in this earth school?
>>OHOTTO: Well, the
thing is that that I
think the real
answer to that, we
can't answer with
the human mind.
We'll never really
answer that adequately
enough with the human mind.
I think the heart
can answer that.
So there's certain things
in terms of soul and spirit,
and metaphysics, and
spirituality, and the soul
that we just have to kind of
lean in here to make sense of.
Because we can look at
this-- this world and there's
a lot of pain and suffering,
and a lot of-- man, people
doing some really nasty
stuff to each other.
And we just think why bother?
What are we even doing here?
This is pretty horrific,
some of this stuff.
And then you turn the corner
and you see something amazing.
And someone swoops in
with an act of grace
or an act of service
out of nowhere
and saves somebody's life
or helps somebody out
as a stranger.
And then you go, oh
yeah, I feel it here.
That's why there's
something here.
So I think that my sense, if I
can language it the best I can,
is that we are here to evolve.
There's some sort of
evolutionary process
the soul is very vested in.
And why?
I can't exactly answer that.
But I can say that there
is some sort of awakening,
or experience and growth, and
continual, ongoing, nonstop,
infinite evolution that
this part of me and you
is completely down with.
>>LILOU: It feels
like there's something
to the extent of being
more and more free, as
free-- in the real
sense of being free.
And let that spiritual,
unlimited, loving part
of ourselves shine out.
Just be, really.
>>OHOTTO: Yeah, it's
about just being.
And I think if we
can maybe position it
in terms of choices made-- I
always look at it this way.
You wake up every day
and you get the choice
to honor the truth all is
one from your choices or not.
And not that it's
that dualistic,
but it's a good way to
simplify and say, well,
does this choice
honor all is one?
And it's not always
as it appears.
If you're going to honor
all is one with an addict,
you're not going to
give them more heroin.
Even though they're going
through a horrific withdrawal,
you're going to say no heroin.
You're going to have to
get out of this, buddy.
We're not doing this.
This is done.
You're going to have to
choose the mystical path.
You're going to have
to choose your soul
or you're going to die.
So sometimes the
choice that honors
all is one on the surface
might not not look very nice
or feel nice, and people
might not appreciate it.
But you have to hold the higher
perspective and the higher
space for that person.
And you can extrapolate
from that example
to many people in your life.
Sometimes setting a
boundary with somebody
and saying no is the
most loving thing
you'll ever do for
them and yourself.
>>LILOU: Obstacles.
We have obstacles
in our lives, things
that don't go exactly
how we would like them--
>>OHOTTO: We do?
>>LILOU: --how we feel.
>>OHOTTO: Really?
>>LILOU: Yeah.
Yeah.
We all know exactly
what that is.
How do we deal with that?
What are those?
Are some obstacles
not really obstacles?
part of our destiny?
Some are really just things
that we need to heal?
How would you even
work this out?
>>OHOTTO: I think
that's interesting
because a lot of people, because
of shame, will see an obstacle
and think that there's
something wrong with them.
There's an obstacle
that shouldn't be here.
This shouldn't be here.
Any time we're in should
or shouldn't, shame.
You want to track that and go,
OK, I'm speaking from shame.
But obstacle's a part
of the destined path.
I kind of look at it from
a few different places.
I think there's creative
obstacles that are there
to help summon in you a
character, edify character
in you, build muscles for the
other stuff you're here to do
and create and lift.
I think that those
are necessary.
I know in my life I've had
numerous obstacles that
were like that that kind of
prepared me for the next level.
And I want to be clear about
something about destiny.
Destiny is always going to
be connected to service.
It's not just about
self-realization
for your own narcissistic desire
of finally self-realizing.
What's that going to serve?
And I think it's about
summoning and really
bringing forward and
coming out with what's
most unique and
amazing about you.
And so obstacles will do that.
They will push you and get you
strong enough and fortified
enough so that you can go
to the next level of what
you're destined for.
But there's also fated
redirection obstacles.
Now, we're gonna
talk about that.
>>LILOU: I saw
your YouTube video.
I saw that.
>>OHOTTO: I know.
We got to talk about that.
So sometimes in this culture--
let me give you an example.
The shows like "American
Idol" and "The Voice."
And people go and try out
for these shows, right?
And they go and they
sing, but they can't sing.
Right?
So I always got curious.
Why are you even
going to this show
and auditioning when
you can't even sing?
You don't have that talent.
That's not your destiny.
And it's something I think
we all do in our own way.
We chase someone else's dream.
We chase something
else that looks shiny,
or that we think
will fill a hole,
or give us the value that
we don't feel we have.
I lived in LA for a year.
And I remember running
into and meeting
a lot of actors
and aspiring actors
who were chasing validation
and being seen because when
they were kids, no one saw them.
No one gave them that
sense of specialness
or empowered them
with hey, I see you.
You're awesome.
I see you.
So they go and they
have to super size it.
>>LILOU: And others see that.
Sorry.
Others see it.
We see that.
We see that
inauthenticity in them.
It's obvious.
>>OHOTTO: And then if they
get some fame or something,
it usually kills them.
They end up in their addictions,
and it takes them out.
So the thing that I would
say about fated redirections,
though, is that they're
obstacles that say hey, stop.
This is not your path, man.
You've got to turn
left, turn right.
Go somewhere else.
I'll give you an example of LA.
I was writing my book,
"Transforming Fate Into
Destiny," at the time
I was living in LA.
And I would have this schedule
where I would do readings
during the day, go
hike Runyon Canyon,
which is at the base side of
where I lived at the time.
And there was this guy
that had this cart there,
sitting outside the canyon.
And he was selling water.
And I lived right in
this condo right there,
so I never needed
to really buy water.
But I'm curious about
people as an intuitive.
You just get curious
about people.
And every time I
read somebody, I
feel like I'm getting some
new download of perspective
around what soul
contracts actually are
and what our
destinies really are.
It's a never ending, kind
of curious field for me.
But I happened to be
walking one day past him.
And he had this headshot
of himself on his cart.
And above it, it said,
shamelessly seeking agent.
So he's looking for an
agent, right, to rep him.
And I took one look at him
one day and I I thought,
dude, you are on
the wrong path, man.
This is not going
to work for you.
Not that he didn't have
the actor archetype per se.
But what trumped that for
him was he had the teacher.
And I could feel in his
field this love for kids.
So one day, I decided-- and I
had just done reading ratings
and my intuitive antenna
was just still up,
and I usually go walk
to bring that down.
And I just whisped into him.
And I thought, I have to
go buy water from him.
I got to go talk to this guy.
The divine is summoning
me to this encounter,
this synchronicity.
So I went over to him and I
said hey, what's going on?
How are you doing?
And he was horribly unhappy.
He looked terrible.
He just looked drained of life.
Long story short,
I said, so what
are you going to do if this
acting thing doesn't work out?
And I had tracked in him
this fabulous teacher.
And I had this sort of
impression, intuitive
impression, of him teaching
kids in high school drama.
And he said, well, I've been
thinking about maybe going back
to college or school
and becoming a teacher.
And I went, hello.
And I said, you know,
that's exactly what I
would do if I were you.
I said, you would enjoy it.
You'd get to do your acting.
You'd get to do the drama, but
you get to engage the kids.
And you get to be you in the
way that you were destined.
>>LILOU: How did
you know intuitively
that that was the
thing he was meant for?
What were the signs?
How did you feel?
>>OHOTTO: It's just the
way that my wiring works.
And I just kind of
see that in people.
>>LILOU: Yeah.
But we want to know
how does it feel
because we're all
intuitive, right?
>>OHOTTO: Right.
Everybody's
intuitive, absolutely.
Yeah.
That's a good question.
It's about recognizing the
stuff that you innately,
genuinely have a passion for.
Don't try to supersize it.
Don't think, well, if I can't
be Brad Pitt, I shouldn't act.
Or if I can't be Martha
Stewart, I shouldn't cook.
If I can't be Oprah
Winfrey, I shouldn't
do some sort of talk show.
You have to go with
what your lane is,
what your passions are,
and follow that through
because that's-- the
gods rise to meet you.
Doors open.
For me, doors -- this path for
me, I wanted to be an actor.
That was my original thing.
And I was a theater major, then
I studied psych in college.
>>LILOU: I can see that.
>>OHOTTO: And then, as you
know, I studied French.
>>LILOU: Oui.
>>OHOTTO: Oui.
And then I had this
different ambition.
All the while, I was using tools
like metaphysics, intuition,
archetypal depth psychology,
Joseph Campbell's
mythology studies.
All this stuff to
understand myself
so I could figure out
how to be an actor.
And the gods tricked me.
Next thing I know, Caroline
Myss was taking me under wing.
I'm getting launched.
All this stuff happens.
I didn't never plan it.
I never planed that.
And then at some
point, you recognize
that you have the skill set,
something unique, that you're
born to do and give people.
And then you just
let the rest happen.
I was scouted to write a book.
I didn't have a manuscript.
That's unheard of.
That is completely unheard of.
Hay House and Random
House both contacted me
at the same exact time within
three weeks of each other
to write a book for them.
And I hadn't written anything.
>>LILOU: The book.
It's here.
It has materialized from
the unseen to the seen.
>>OHOTTO: It is.
It was born.
>>LILOU: It was born, because
it's like that, isn't it?
>>OHOTTO: It is.
>>LILOU: It goes from the unseen
to physically manifesting.
Are things created-- let's
talk just for a second
on a little thing about
the law of attraction.
Just a little thing,
because you say
it was hijacked by capitalism.
Let's get the little
touch on that,
how things manifest in reality.
What does really happen?
>>OHOTTO: There's something
called the law of attraction
that I feel is very real in
our experience of being alive.
But I think what we-- because
we're a mental culture,
we want.
And the reason why I think
we want to go to the mind
is because we feel like then
life becomes more controllable.
So if I can think
something into being,
well, that makes me feel
like I'm in control.
And if we just started to
get real with ourselves, how
true is that really?
How many people are right now
terrified to be on an airplane,
thinking it's going to crash,
and nothing's falling out
of the sky?
I'm glad we're not
that powerful, frankly,
because if I went to my
thoughts and started immediately
manifesting out of there,
it would be a nightmare,
you know what I mean?
I always tell everyone your
experience will forever
be your best teacher.
When I was 19--
because I started
studying all this
stuff very young
and was just innately wired
to go toward the light,
if you will, and go toward all
this knowledge and philosophy.
I had a vision board
at 19, and I'm 41.
This is well before
all this stuff blew up.
And I used to put
on my vision board
to win the lottery so I could
be an environmentalist rescuer.
I was going to use
millions of dollars
to rescue the environment.
I'm not even making this up.
>>LILOU: I hope so.
>>OHOTTO: Right?
>>LILOU: New paradigm--
truth authenticity.
>>OHOTTO: You know, I
didn't win the lottery.
I did not manifest the lottery.
And good on me for it
because, I'll tell you,
it wasn't my destiny.
You can't trump what
your contract's already
been written for.
And a lot of times, people
are taking, ironically,
a wounded sense of lack
to this law of attraction
and trying to fill holes.
And it would be the
worst thing for them
for the universe
say OK, here you go.
You're going to manifest it.
Instead, it'd be better
to say, you know,
I want to align with what I
was born to do and be in life.
And I want to,
first of all, align
with just core worthiness.
Let's just get that going.
And I think that the
law of attraction
works in more dynamic ways than
just focusing on positivism
because we have a shadow.
And we have contracts with
people to shadow dance.
We have contracts with
people to be shaken up
into our unconscious
pain and how
we make choices of
self-sabotage unconsciously.
And, you know, it'd be
great if we could just--
And the thing that's
also ironic about that,
too, is, you know, when the
book "The Secret" came out,
it was around the same time our
economy in the United States
completely shattered.
And I always kept
thinking to myself, well,
where are all the
manifesters out there that
have bought millions
of copies of this book?
Where are they?
Where's all this
abundance that we're
supposed to be manifesting?
And it was nowhere because
the technicalities of it
don't work that way.
There's greater
forces than our mind,
and greater forces than
the ego's mental field
that really are
running the show.
>>LILOU: So really, if it's
not part of the soul contract
or it's not good for
our soul kind of thing,
it won't manifest.
Law of attraction
or not, it's just--
>>OHOTTO: And I also say
this, another level of it
too that I learned-- and
I'm all for vision boards.
I think they're awesome.
They're a great way to kind
of-- Sometimes what you'll
do is you'll put
up there something
that's part of
your soul contract.
And then it happens,
and then people mistake
that as they made it happen.
But what they really
did was they just
projected it onto the board.
And then they aligned with
it, and then it manifested.
And then they think,
well, I did that.
That's pretty narcissistic,
because-- I'm sorry.
I didn't create the sun.
I didn't create the planets
and the movement around sun.
I'm not keeping gravity.
My mind ain't doing anything
with gravity right now,
but we're still in these chairs.
But the other side of it
too is where vision boards
can become very powerful, is
I always think, well, whatever
you put on your vision board,
ask yourself this question.
It's a good way to
go to the shadow.
What would it take in me to
change to have that in my life?
So if you put on there soulmate,
awesome relationship, marriage,
well, you better get
ready to also engage
the core, raw
vulnerability it's going
to take to be in a relationship
that nourishes you that way.
You better be ready to risk
trust and opening yourself
to somebody because that's
also going to get animated
and energized.
And I've seen it work
that way for people, too.
They'll put something
on a vision board
and it's almost
like throwing down
the gauntlet of
transformation and saying,
I want that in my life,
and the cosmos going,
you wouldn't even be able
to know how to let that in.
So get ready,
because we're going
to start an alchemical
journey where
you're going to
have to transform.
>>LILOU: Ooh la la.
That's the shadow work.
>>OHOTTO: That's
shadow work, yeah.
>>LILOU: So we have
to go through it.
>>OHOTTO: You do.
>>LILOU: No escape.
>>OHOTTO: I think we're
masters at defending
against facing our pain.
I'm right there with everybody.
We are.
I did an intensive
online course.
I have one, actually, called
Discovering Your Destiny
in the Shadow.
And I thought, people
can run away from--
and we do emotional bypasses all
the time, even in this field.
That's why we don't want to
feel anything that feels bad.
So if I'm feeling bad, well,
just think I feel good.
That's a bypass.
>>LILOU: Affirmations.
So you don't like affirmations.
>>OHOTTO: That feeling
is intuitive data.
Emotions are intuitive data.
So if you follow them, hang
out with them long enough,
they'll guide you to where
they're emanating from.
And then there's the dragon
that needs loved, hugged.
And there's the treasure
behind the dragon.
Technically speaking,
I can tell you
as an intuitive, that is just
how the human psyche works.
The more that you try to
defend against that process,
the more you inflame the dragon.
The more that the
shadow gets even darker.
>>LILOU: And then there's
a dark night of the soul?
What is that?
>>OHOTTO: I call it the
dark night of the ego.
I do, because what's
dark for your soul?
This is the immortal,
omniscient, ultrasensory--
>>LILOU: Old paradigm, again.
You see, I just popped it out.
>>OHOTTO: New paradigm, baby.
>>LILOU: All right.
Time to change.
Update.
>>OHOTTO: Dark night of the ego.
The ego is the part of you
that's going through the shift.
It's that whatever you've
created as an identity.
I consider we all
have a soul schedule.
So when you're born, you
make this whole contract.
It's not just this
static blueprint.
It is a verb.
There's timing in it.
We live and manifest purpose
through cycles of time.
So we're scheduled for
dark nights of the ego.
And what that is is it's
kind of like the archetype
of the crucifixion.
Some part of you
that is now getting
in the way of your
light must now
be sacrificed on that cross.
And that could be-- people have
shadow loyalties, I call it.
As much as we might hate
our pain and suffering,
we can be very loyal to it
and the pain and suffering
of our family and
of our parents.
So people will oftentimes feel
like-- unconsciously, I'll
attract this-- I
can't be happier
than my mom or dad were.
So if you get to that
edge where you just
might get more nourishment than
they did, more potential going,
well, you step back.
You do something
to yourself or you
make a choice, albeit
perhaps pseudo-unconsciously,
to sabotage yourself
back into status quo
so that you don't leave the
orbit of the family lineage.
>>LILOU: A little question
regarding past life regressions
or things.
Is that important
in this lifetime
to really look at those?
Or are we automatically
going to encounter
those obstacles and these
challenges and this dark night
to launch a better
part of ourself?
>>OHOTTO: I think both are true.
What I think about past
life regression overall,
though, is that our bodies carry
memory of our literal lineage,
family-wise and heritage-wise
of our ancestors.
So a lot of times when people
do past life regression, what
they're actually
doing is they're
going through holographic
cellular memory.
It's not even a past life.
It's the imagery
and the perspective
is that this is a past life.
And that's fine if you want
to think of it that way.
What's more important
is the information.
Because here's the deal.
I've been murdered I
don't know how many times.
I probably had my head cut off.
Probably was burned at I
don't know how many stakes,
you know what I'm saying?
So I don't walk around
itchy, and feeling
like I'm burning, and have
throat problems, and things
I need to regress
back to release.
So we've all been murdered.
If we get into
reincarnation here,
we've all bit the dust
probably 1,000 different ways.
Why aren't we all, while walking
around, needing to kind unravel
that all the time?
I think that the reason why
some people do have that
is just as a soul contract
reminder for the rest of us
that hey, this
isn't the only life.
Pay attention.
I'm going to see a past
life regressionist.
They're going to
write books about this
just to remind you very simply
this isn't the only life.
But I think there
are, that said,
energies, lessons, if you
want to call them that,
from our past lives that
we do come here to evolve.
I don't think fix or
necessarily even work on
is the right word, that you
have to watch that shame factor.
But we're here to evolve
and it's a process.
But sometimes people
are regressing
stuff that happened
to their grandparents.
It's not even actually a past
life in terms of their soul,
but it's the memory
in their cell tissue.
Your body is like
a bank of memories.
>>LILOU: What are
some of the things?
How can we know that
actually we're on destiny
or we're experiencing destiny?
>>OHOTTO: Well, we're
always on purpose,
so you can't help
but be on purpose.
And I think of destiny
in terms of flow charts.
I don't know if you've seen the
movie "The Adjustment Bureau"
with Matt Damon.
It's like he makes a choice.
I swear someone hacked my
mind and made that movie
because it's actually how it
works from my perspective.
You make choices.
They flow chart out into
other possibilities.
And your soul contract's
still your soul contract,
but this is where
you have free will.
Because we do have free will.
We actually do have choice.
I think part of my work of late,
and my intention in my work,
is to help people
cultivate conscious choice.
Conscious choice.
Not compulsive, not reactive,
not addictive, but hey,
I'm going to choose.
And I'm going to choose the
choice that's true from here.
But whenever you
do that, you are
at the top potential
of your destiny.
When you choose from
here, guide from here.
>>LILOU: The heart?
>>OHOTTO: The heart, yeah.
And that's it.
>>LILOU: So there's
some wisdom there, huh?
>>OHOTTO: Yeah.
And it's not accessed mentally.
Its accessed more
from the feeling body.
You sink into it.
You feel the truth.
You feel answers.
You feel the next step.
And if you're jammed
up emotionally,
you don't know how to
be with your feelings,
this is where you
have to begin, is
in that emotional decompression
and emotional kind
of release of letting feelings
be OK, no matter what they are.
>>LILOU: Because they transmute.
They can transmute really fast,
don't they, and transform.
>>OHOTTO: If you
just let it be, yeah.
And you get guided to
what-- Feelings to me
are always a cry from
something unconscious in you.
Like anger.
So if I'm mad or if
I'm pissed off, well,
that's saying something
like, hey, you know what?
Someone just violated me.
I've got some unresolved
thing here going on.
Instead of shaming myself
for being an angry person,
what if I just said
cool, I'm angry.
I'm going to be with this
because I'm curious about this.
Where is this coming from in me?
And then if you
let that ventilate,
then it takes you somewhere.
And you get guided from there
as to hey, you know what?
Yeah, they did just violate you.
You better set a
boundary next time
or right now so that
you feel you can recover
your power in whatever
way you're guided to.
>>LILOU: We didn't
talk about fate,
though this is the biggest word
on this cover I've noticed.
>>OHOTTO: Fate?
>>LILOU: So how do we
transform fate into destiny?
What's the difference
between those two?
>>OHOTTO: Well,
fate to me is kind
of the set up your soul chose.
So, you know, now that
I'm here, you're here.
You were born in France
and you were born--
>>LILOU: In the US.
>>OHOTTO: You were
born in the US, right.
>>LILOU: French parents.
>>OHOTTO: Right.
OK.
Bad example.
But, you know, I
was born in the US.
>>LILOU: Exactly.
>>OHOTTO: And now that
this is all established,
I can't decide, well,
I wish I would've
had a different family,
been born somewhere
else, I wish I
would've been born
other than 1972.
That was-- My soul chose that.
My soul locked that stuff in.
My soul locked in the time
when I was born, the site.
And this is what's
fascinating to me.
This is where I do a lot
of the work with people.
That's the obvious fate.
That's your obvious fate.
The less obvious fate
is the psychic fate
that you were born into.
So we were born in an era
when certain psychic patterns,
and beliefs, and ways
of seeing reality
were part of what
created reality.
Before you and I showed up
on the scene on this planet,
there already were patterns
creating reality here
that we emerged into.
We didn't just
bring them with us.
They were here.
That's fate.
So destiny is, all right, as you
awaken, as you get your power,
your connection to
yourself online,
now what are you
going to do in that?
What are you going to in that.
And everybody has a
unique call with that.
And that is, I think,
answered two ways.
Andrew Harvey, one
of my friends--
I think you've interviewed
him before and I love him.
He was on my radio show once.
And he said, you know, if you
want to know your purpose,
wake up in the morning and
look outside your window.
And ask yourself, what
breaks your heart the most?
>>LILOU: I love that.
>>OHOTTO: I could barely
breathe after he said that.
>>LILOU: Oh my god, this is big.
>>OHOTTO: I know.
I could barely breathe.
That's the first way I think
you locate your purpose.
So we all have-- there's
enough heartbreak to go around.
But I think for all of us, we
have a particular heartbreak.
For me, one of my heartbreaks
is people being bullied or being
shamed because I grew
up with it so heavy.
So anyone, I don't care who
you are, I will draw a sword
and stand in front
of the bully for you,
just like I did when
I was five years old.
It's gong to make me cry.
>>LILOU: This is big.
>>OHOTTO: Yeah.
And then the other
part of it is--
>>LILOU: And then I'm
going to cry, so please.
>>OHOTTO: I know.
>>LILOU: Yeah.
No, this is nature.
This is human
nature at its best.
>>OHOTTO: It's the
organic nature of destiny.
Destiny is very
organic, actually.
It comes from-- people, what is
my destiny, what is my purpose.
What have you been through?
What have you had to survive?
It's like my mother,
who's a recovering addict.
Part of her destiny was to
become a counselor for addicts.
She runs a treatment facility
on Pine Ridge Reservation
for the Lakota Indians.
And so that was her
calling in part.
So it comes from that.
But also as you sit with
your heartbreak, what
talents and gifts in you
can help the healing?
And then also throw in passion.
And then now you have destiny.
This is your destiny code.
It's my heartbreak, my
talents and gifts and skills.
And then how I have overcome
or moved through obstacles.
And then where's my
passion in all of that?
What makes you want to
get out of bed and care
about this world?
And care about
people in this world?
That is destiny.
It's destiny.
>>LILOU: I think we're
going to leave it on that.
It's very, very powerful.
I really feel it.
And I know that all the
beautiful Gaiam audience
can feel it, too.
We're all in there together.
And you said it beautifully.
It's very, very powerful.
I'm thrilled to have done
this interview with you.
I knew it was going to be
just an amazing time with you,
I could tell.
My intuition could tell that.
My heart could tell that.
I'm excited if you
have some comments
and you want to drop some
little comments there and get
this conversation
going about destiny.
What is your destiny, you know?
What did you have to go through?
We didn't quite tap into the
whole authenticity, which
is a huge last little
point before we
finish because we
want some more.
Just a last little bit
about authenticity.
And once we start
doing this shadow work,
why is that so important,
especially now in these times?
>>OHOTTO: I think authenticity
is your GPS of intuition.
I think that it
is the part of you
that you know is your truth.
A lot of people think
that what happened
to them is their truth.
Like I could be, if someone's
on here, and say, you know,
I'm a survivor of abuse.
That's my authenticity.
No, that's what happened to you.
Your victimization
isn't your authenticity.
It's who you are underneath
in your essence that's
your authenticity.
And authenticity is
always about connection.
It's about here I am.
I'm locating me.
There you are.
Let's connect.
And connect in a way
that's genuine, vulnerable,
but also open and
willing to love.
It's about connections to
love, and yourself, and esteem,
and core worth,
and Buddha nature.
>>LILOU: Soul esteem.
>>OHOTTO: Soul esteem.
Very different than self-esteem.
>>OHOTTO: Yes.
Something I came up with
when I was writing the book.
Soul esteem is--
and it's something
that you-- Ego esteem's when
we start to develop things
by accomplishments.
And there's nothing
wrong with it.
It's psychologically
on a human level
how we should develop
esteem initially.
But as you spiritually
mature into
spiritual-awakened adulthood--
for example, Martin Luther
King, Junior had to
have some soul esteem
because he was taking on a
cultural pattern of racism.
And if he wouldn't have had some
kind of innate sense of worth
to stand up to that, he
couldn't have pulled it off.
That's soul esteem.
It's the party that
says, you know what?
I'm not moving in
the world based
on what people think of me.
I'm moving in the
world based on who
I am and my need to
wake people up to love.
That's what I'm moving into.
And if that means I have
to tell you racism's wrong,
and that might take me out,
I might get shot, I'm in.
It trumps survival
drive and fear.
It's something that
is so powerful in you,
some metaphysical impulse
that you can't make happen.
You can touch in.
And it will always
guide you to-- I
call it your perfumed
version of destiny.
>>LILOU: Robert, we
want more of you.
We love you.
I'm speaking for everybody.
My god, this is good.
This is good.
Thank you, thank you, thank
you for being who you are--
>>OHOTTO: Thank
you for having me.
It's been great.
>>LILOU: --and daring to be
that beautiful man that you are.
Thank you.
>>OHOTTO: Thank you.
I appreciate that.
>>LILOU: We send you lots of
love, my beautiful co-creators.
I hope you have
enjoyed this interview.
There's many, many interviews.
Many of my shows have
been actually taped
around the world.
Go and check it out.
We send you much love.
Thank you, Robert.
>>OHOTTO: Thank you.
>>LILOU: The title of your book,
"Forming Fate--" transforming,
not forming. "Transforming--
>>OHOTTO: Transforming.
>>LILOU: "--Fate Into Destiny."
Thank you.
Much love to you, and have a
beautiful, amazing, inspiring
day.
Thank you, Robert.
>>OHOTTO: Thank you.